thank you all for being here from my
right let me introduce who I have with
me and then acknowledge some special
friends my right is Gareth Rhodes who
has been he works with the Department of
Financial Services but he's been working
with us in Albany
during this coronavirus pandemic to my
left Melissa de Rosa who's secretary to
the governor to her left
Robert Mejia who is the state budget
director he doesn't smile much in
nowadays because the state budget is not
in great shape
but when the federal government does the
right thing and gives us funding we
expect that he's gonna smile that big
smile again it's a pleasure to be in
Rochester with so many of my friends who
have done such great work for the state
former lieutenant governor Bob Duffy who
worked with me when we first got started
and has done great work for the entire
state of New York Danny Wegman pleasure
to be with you workmen's is a great New
York Corporation and then he's a great
civic leader and they've been very
helpful through this situation also
thank you for allowing us to do the
antibody testing at Wegmans that's been
very very helpful and we thank you for
everything you've done
and Nicole Wegman thank you pleasure
thank you for being on our New York
forward advisory board to help us going
forward and find our way through this
let's give you an update on where we are
today the total number of
hospitalizations is down you see that
curve coming down you see that mountain
that we went up now we're on the other
side of the mountain you start to see
the shape of the mountain unfortunately
the decline from the mountain is not as
steep as the incline right and the big
question for us in New York and and
every state of course the nation has
been how fast and how low does that
decline go right how fast does the
decline actually happen and what is the
lowest level that
decline will reach unfortunately you see
that we were shape we were hoping for a
quick up plateau at the top which is
what they talked about but a fast
decline you see the the climb is again
not as steep as the incline but it is a
decline and that's good news the net
change in total hospitalizations is is
down and that change in intubations is
down and that's always good news when a
person is it intubated roughly 80% of
the times there is not a good outcome so
the fact that the intubations is down is
a good is good news and then the other
end is how many new cases are coming in
the door every day how many new
diagnoses in kovat cases and that number
is also declining so not only are the
number of people in hospitals coming
down but the number of new cases coming
in the door is down and that's good news
because it had plateaued at about 900
statewide for a few days but this number
is is down at 700 and that's a good
number I would take this with a grain of
salt as they say because this is
reporting from yesterday which was a
Sunday and sometimes we get different
results on the weekend remember this
whole reporting system is just been put
in place this never happened before this
is now every hospital in the state
reporting every day for the first time
so it's a plus or minus across the board
this is the number that haunts me every
day and this number is not declining
anywhere nearly as fast as we would like
to see it decline still 226 peak New
Yorkers who passed away and so we don't
become immune we talk about these
numbers
it's 226
families right that's 226 wives or
brothers or sisters or children that are
now suffering the loss of a loved one so
that we remember them in our thoughts
and our prayers people are all talking
about reopening which we should be
talking about this is not a sustainable
situation closed down everything closed
down the economy lock yourself in the
home you can do it for a short period of
time but you can't do it forever but
reopening is more difficult than the
closed down the closed down was
relatively simple right you go into the
basement you throw the big power switch
and everything just goes down close the
businesses stay at home it was a blunt
operation and when that was done all
across the country just stop everything
now when you go to restart the reopening
now knowing what we know it's more
nuanced you have to be more careful and
again no one has done this before no one
has been here before so first start by
learning the lessons that we did learn
through this experience and second let's
be smart about what we do and I get the
emotion and I get the impatience and I
get the anxiety we all feel it when I
say this situation is unsustainable its
unsustainable on many levels it's
unsustainable economically its
unsustainable personally a lot of
anxiety is now all through our community
we see it in increased alcoholism
increased substance abuse increased
domestic violence so this is a very very
difficult period and people want to move
on yes but let's be smart about what we
do and let's learn the lessons one of
the lessons is we have never been here
before and we didn't really know what
was going on CDC releases a report and
the last week
that says the virus was actually coming
to the East Coast from Europe everybody
was looking at China for all those
months China China China China yeah
China was last November December the
virus migrated from China while we were
all staring at China and went to Europe
and the strain that came to the United
States came from Europe we had people in
the airports stopping people from China
testing people from China the federal
government did a lot of testing a lot of
screening people getting off planes from
China yeah but meanwhile the people from
Europe were walking right past them and
that's where the strain came from that
was infecting this area and that's what
the CDC just learned last week and this
is going back to February right on one
of the most study topics ever again just
learn the lessons of what happened you
now add that piece of information on the
Europe trips and then you see the number
of flights that came from Europe during
that time where they landed and now you
it explains why you've seen the outbreak
in Chicago that you've seen why you've
seen the number of cases in New York
because yes the flights were landing
here people were coming from Italy and
UK and from European countries and
nobody thought to screen them nobody was
on guard and you add that to the density
of New York especially in New York City
and that virus just took off okay we
didn't know we didn't know now we do we
also can look back in history you look
at that 1918 flu pandemic that they talk
about the places that opened too soon so
that flu come right back and by the way
that flu was not one wave that was three
waves first wave second way of third
wave second wave was worse
then the first wave and you see watch
the other countries that went through
this before us right we're not the first
one down the chute there were other
countries that went down before us you
see they wanted to reopen also they were
feeling the pressure on reopening and
you study those cases and you see that
you've reopened too soon or you reopen
unintelligently and you can then have an
immediate backlash and that's not
speculation that is looking at other
countries and look at what what has
happened around the world and then you
talk to the experts who know listen to
what they're saying
dr. pouchy who I think is one of the
best voices and minds on this dr. Falchi
has been through this in in different
iterations he was one of the pioneers on
the HIV virus and AIDS and he says we
could be in for a bad fall and a bad
winter could be why cuz he doesn't know
he's not sure but could be for a bad
fall or bad winter ok so put all of this
in the in the equation and then also
acknowledge and actualize that the truth
is that nobody knows what happens next
and when it happens well how can that be
that nobody knows we're so sophisticated
we have so much intelligence we have so
many experts this is the United States
of America how can it be that no one
knows because no one knows I speak to
the best experts globally globally and
nobody can tell you for sure now experts
we look to experts and we expect them to
know so we push them to know
answer the question tell me when what's
going to happen in September what's
going to happen in December sometimes
the answer is I don't know sometimes
that's the honest answer I was talking
to my daughter's last night and they
you know you say at your briefings I
don't know how can you say that first
I'm not really sure they watch my
briefings but they're right sometimes I
say I don't know why because I don't
know and if you don't know say you don't
know and I speak again to the best minds
in this country the best minds around
the globe and they don't know so if you
don't know say you don't know it doesn't
mean you're not smart no reason to get
defensive I don't know when you know
what you don't know and admit it it will
actually keep you safe my daughters
don't quite agree with this yet but I
haven't given up on the concept know
what you don't know know when you don't
know what the future holds you can be
safe because then you can prepare for
different possibilities and that's where
we are we don't know but we will be
prepared for all possibilities so
reopening chart a course with the best
information you have learning from the
lessons you have but be able to correct
that course depending on what happens
which means don't act emotionally don't
act because I feel this I feel that
because someone said well other states
are opening so we'll you must be able to
open if other states are open if we get
the anecdotal forget the atmospherics
forget the environment don't forget the
emotional look at the data look at the
measurements look at the science follow
the facts and that's what we've done
here from day one
there is no gut instinct this is look at
the data look at their science look at
the metrics move forward measuring what
you can and what you know and then be
prepared to adjust well I want
specificity I want to know for sure
you don't but there's liberation in
knowing
so let's do this intelligently based on
metrics and we'll see what happens and
we'll adjust to whatever happens well
what does that mean our metrics you can
measure this and we have to measure this
you look at that percentage and the rate
of hospitalizations which we have right
that's the chart that goes up and down
you watch that hospitalization rate do
your diagnostic testing so you know how
many people are testing positive and you
can watch that rate going up or down or
flat do the contract tracing so after
the testing you follow up and you do
that contact tracing and you are then
reducing the infection spread by
isolating the positives if you do those
things you will control the rate of
transmission of the virus which is
everything nobody says you're going to
eliminate the virus in the short-term
nooo-body but you can control the rate
of transmission and if you can control
the rate of transmission you can control
the rate of transmission from becoming
an outbreak or an epidemic or
overwhelming your public health system
that is the best you can do
so control the rate of transmission to
what they call one point one or less one
point one is every person infects one
point one other people more than one
other person if you're doing that that
is an outbreak that means it's going to
increase exponentially and it's going to
be out of control as long as your rate
of transmission is manageable and low
then reopen your businesses and reopen
the businesses in phases so you're
increasing that activity level while
you're watching the rate of transmission
rate of transmission goes up stop the
reopening close the valve close the
valve right away so reopen businesses do
it in phases
and watch that rate of transmission it
gets over 1.1 stop everything
immediately that's where the other
countries wound up they started to
reopen they exceeded the 1.1 it became
an outbreak again they had to slow down
rather than starting and stopping you'd
rather have a controlled start so you
don't have to stop right and that's what
you learn from the other countries you
reopen too fast then you have to stop
and nobody wants to have gone through
all of this and then start just to stop
again well how does that happen first of
all it's not going to happen statewide
this state has different regions which
are in much different situations than
other regions in this state and rather
than wait for the whole state to be
ready reopen on a regional basis if
upstate has to wait for downstate to be
ready they're gonna be waiting a long
time
so analyze the situation on a regional
basis okay and you look at a region on
four measures the number of new
infections your health care capacity if
the infections goes too high you
overwhelm your health system now your
Italy with people on Gurney's in the
hallway because your hospital system
can't handle it do your diagnostic
testing so you're seeing how the
infection is increasing or decreasing
and do the contact tracing have that
system in place so when you test them
you find a positive you trace the
contacts from that positive person and
you're isolating them to bring down the
rate and you do that on a regional basis
that system has to be in place for a
regional basis how do you start when can
I start
reopening
we look at guidelines from the CDC which
say a region has to have at least 14
days of decline in total
hospitalizations and death on a
three-day rolling average so you take a
3 day average you have to have 14 days
of decline
you can't have more than 15 new total
cases or five new deaths on a three-day
rolling average this is telling you that
you're basically at a plateau level that
you can actually start to reopen then
you're watching the rate of infection
and the spread of the infection and the
benchmark there is fewer than two new
covered patients per 100,000 residents
right it's based on your population to
account for the variants in the
different sizes of regions across the
state
then anticipate protect yourself from
all possibilities well what if we have a
surge again never fill your hospitals to
more than seventy percent capacity leave
30 percent in case you have a surge
remember this virus is tricky the rate
of infection per a person who gets
infected today shows up in the hospital
ten days from today or two weeks from
today
so that infection rate goes up you don't
feel it for two weeks there's a lag to
it you want to make sure you have 30
percent of the hospital beds available
in case you have that surge also learn
the lessons from before every hospital
has to have 90 days of PPE for that
Hospital at the rate that they have been
using it they're covered we cannot have
another mad scramble where nurses and
doctors don't have downs and masks etc
because the hospitals don't have
of the necessary stockpile so make sure
every hospital has the stockpile on the
testing we have the really remarkable
work on testing 1 million New Yorkers
have now been tested believe it or not
and the cdc coronavirus task force for
the white house recommends that for a
region to reopen you have 30 tests for
every 1000 residents ready to go
so what testing capacity do we need for
a region to reopen you have to be
prepared to do 30 tests for every 1000
residents New York is doing more tests
than any country in the state by far
New York is doing more tests than any
country on the globe per capita so we're
way ahead and testing but it doesn't
matter what we're doing statewide to
open a region that region has to have a
testing capacity of 30 per 1000 the
National Guard has been doing a great
job for us in putting together testing
kits and distributing testing kits and
we want to thank them very much but we
have to have those tests and we have to
have what they call tracers contact
tracers in place and Mayor Bloomberg has
been very helpful former mayor of New
York City in putting together this
tracing system this has never existed
before on this scale a group of people
who literally trace contacts from a
person who's positive who did you have
dinner with last night who did you have
dinner with two nights ago who might you
have been in contact with and then
contacting those people to say do you
have any symptoms if you do you should
know you were with John Smith John Smith
tested positive he said he went to
dinner with you you should be on alert
that old tracing system has never been
done not only in this state
in this country so this that all has to
be set up and it has to be done once
that is all done then you can talk about
reopening businesses well which
businesses do we open first you open
businesses first that are most essential
and pose the lowest risk okay most
essential and the lowest risk phase one
we're talking about construction
manufacturing and select retail with
curbside pickup they are the most
essential with the lowest risk second
phase professional services retail the
administrative support real estate third
phase restaurant food services
accommodation fourth arts entertainment
recreation education
remember density is not your friend here
large gatherings are not your friend
that's where the virus tends to spread
that's why those situations would be
down at the end and then we need
businesses to also really imagine how
they're going to do business and get
ready to protect their workforce to
change their physical environment to the
extent they need to and to change their
processes to make sure people can
socially distance people remain at a
safe in a safe environment and that's
going to be up to businesses to come up
with ways to reconfigure their workplace
and their processes to make this work
and that's business by business
government can say these are the
standards but a business is going to
have to figure out how to do that
when you look at this state there are
some regions that right now by the
numbers pose a lower risk some that pose
a higher risk we can tell you by region
right now of
those criteria that we went through
which ones are in place for which region
so which ones have the right
hospitalization the right testing
regimen the right contract contact
tracing regimen and which ones still
have work to do in those areas and this
is going to be region by region and each
region has to put together the leaders
in those respective areas who put
together this system and monitor this
system literally on a daily basis so
they're getting all that import all
those specifics all that data and then
day by day they're making a decision as
to how to proceed with reopening based
on the data based on the facts and
that'll be a little different for every
region in the state may 15th is when the
statewide pause order PA USC not PA WS
the pause order the pause order was
stopped all businesses stay at home that
expires on may 15th may 15th regions can
start to reopen and do their own
analysis but these are the facts that
they have to have in place to do it
start now
don't wait to May 15th don't call me up
on May 15th and say well the pause order
expired I want to open because I'm gonna
ask you the questions I just asked I
just presented do you have a healthcare
system in place is your health system
ready can your hospitals handle it do
you have testing in place the AB tracing
in place have you talked to the
businesses about how they're going to
reopen so we have a couple of weeks but
the this is what local leaders this is
what a community has to deal with to
reopen safely
and intelligently in my opinion this
can't just be we want to get out of the
house we're going no let's be smart
let's be intelligent let's learn from
the past let's do it based on facts you
know we are at a different time in place
government is fundamentally in a
different position than it was just a
couple of months ago this is for real
now right government politics it's not
about optics it's not about celebrity
it's not about press releases it's not
about what I put on Instagram yesterday
this is about government leaders
performance their expertise this is a
situation where their competence and
their ability can be the difference
between life and death literally and
what the governments have done federal
state local what we've done in this
state has literally saved lives
we reduced all the projected
hospitalization rates dramatically by
about a hundred thousand New Yorkers 100
thousand fewer New Yorkers were
hospitalized than they predicted 100,000
think about that if we had 100,000 more
people in our hospital system first of
all our hospital system would have
collapsed
if the projections were true if we
didn't change those projections and we
literally saved lives how many of those
100,000 would have been hospitalized and
would have died so we've done great work
at a tremendous cost and tremendous
hardship but we've done great work we
just have to remain vigilant and smart
and competent going forward and that's
what New York tough means New York tough
means we're tough but we're smart but
disciplined we're unified and we are
loving and it's the love of community
and
of each other and respect for each other
which is what has gotten us through this
and will continue to thank you very much
for taking the time to be here thank you
for the social distancing questions for
myself or any of my colleagues
mask-wearing I said look I believe this
is the this is a time for sort of honest
straightforward talk I said that I think
it's disrespectful of people not to wear
masks I mean think about it you see all
these commercials on TV we thank you to
our heroes thank you to the nurses thank
you to the doctors thank you to the
transit workers thank you to the police
officers and we should be thankful right
they went to work so all of us could
stay safe and go home the look the least
gratitude you can show is at least wear
the mask so you don't infect more people
who place more of a burden on the
hospitals and the nurses and the doctors
who were all saying thank you for your
your great service you really want to
say thank you then respect them and
respect their job and wear the mask so
you don't infect people well I don't
want to wear a mask it's not that big a
deal
and by the way you don't wear a mask for
yourself you wear a mask to protect me I
wear a mask to protect you we owe each
other a certain amount of reasonableness
and respect in society and I owe you
that level of respect that if I'm sick I
should wear a mask local governments
have the ability to enforce and to
penalize that's up to local governments
but do I think local government should
be enforcing it and should there be
sanctions yes yes because it is a public
health emergency
this is not just do me a favor this is a
public health emergency and it's a
statewide order that I put in place that
I'm proud of and local governments have
the responsibility to enforce it and
part of their right
the illegal right is they can have a
penalty or a sanction that they impose
so Rochester can have one penalty you
know you can be appropriate to the to
the community New York City is in a
different situation but yeah I think
local government should enforce it and I
think there should be a penalty because
you could literally literally kill
someone you could literally kill someone
because you didn't want to wear a mask I
mean how how cruel and irresponsible
would that be yes yes you don't have to
wear and no one said wear a mask all the
time right wear a mask if you may be in
a situation where you can't socially
distance you go for a walk in the woods
you don't have to be wearing a mask you
come to a point even from your walk in
the woods where you're going to be in a
parking lot or there's an entrance and
an exit and you may run into other
people wear the mask you can have the
mask down when you're walking in the
woods but now you see someone coming the
other way I'm gonna pass by the other
person you put the mask on I mean it's
it's the least that we can do right
everyone is killing themselves people
are working 24 hours a day show some
respect
show some basic modicum of respect
yeah putting putting all of these new
systems in place is an incredible task
and you know Society now we have a
temptation to blame well who's to blame
who's to blame nobody is to blame that
we don't have testing capacity for
millions of Americans we've never done
this before
our testing system was basically for the
flu test or strep or some other blood
test when the doctor would send you to a
lab to get a blood test we never had a
testing system in this nation that could
do this volume so this whole thing is
the scramble and it was a scramble
between the federal government in the
States who's supposed to do it who's
responsible I had a good meeting with
the president a while back where we sat
down and we said look the states
controlled the labs we have about 300
labs in in New York State we regulate
them the state should be responsible for
what they can do and we need the federal
government to help where they can the
supply chain issue of reagents
manufacturing etc that is an
international supply chain ironically so
much of this stuff comes from China it's
like incredible on the testing the
reagents the chemicals as well as the
PPE when we were looking for masks and
gowns everything was in China but the
federal government has assumed the
responsibility of that international
supply chain the reagents etc this
states sort of take over at the state
line but that supply has increased and
we are distributing it and as you saw
we're doing more testing than any other
state or any other country per capita so
we're coming online very very quickly
but we still have more to do
yeah they're going to get guidance on
what the what plan they need to reopen
schools which is basically the analog to
what a business needs right I want to
reopen my manufacturing company okay how
do you do it and keep people six feet
apart how do you do it in the cafeteria
how do you do it in the transport
how do you run your business in a way
that's going to now meet these social
distancing guidelines same thing for a
school part of the issue for our school
was just the the gatherings in the
school you have 25 students in a class
how do you put 25 students in a class
and there's six feet apart I mean look
at this space right even these press
conferences you need for 20 people you
need you know a tremendous sized room
how how would you do that in the school
how do you socially distance students do
you need more classrooms which means
they need more teachers how do you serve
lunch what do you do about the bus how
do you keep fewer students on the bus so
those kinds of details have to be in the
reopening plan they'll get guidance on
that but it's going to be easier said
than done especially for a school
because think about the problem is the
gathering a school is a gathering that's
what it is
yeah look I get the whole liber8
movement there's no reason for a closing
of anything just open everything up and
let everybody go do whatever they want
to do I get that argument I hear it I
understand it I'm sympathetic to it you
know everybody wants out I also know the
facts of what has happened to the places
have who have done that and what you
suggest that was all those countries
that saw saw a spike in the number of
cases right afterwards saw a spike in
the infection rate sort of spike in the
hospitalizations or spike in the number
of deaths and I would like to see as few
New Yorkers pass away as possible so yes
people want to get out on the other hand
we want to do it in a responsible way
and that's the whole question
no 80 and 90% of us don't get the
coronavirus nobody has gotten the
coronavirus before some people say well
this is like a flu yeah it's not like a
flu even 80 to 90% of us don't get the
flu right but this is a different beast
that we're dealing with and we learned
that the hard way
you don't hear anyone saying anymore
this is like the flu right that was back
in January February that was before we
had 18,000 people in our hospitals in
New York this is not a flu let's take
one more yes
yeah this is a national problem we have
unemployment systems states run the
unemployment system in this case we have
a lot of federal benefits that are
running through the unemployment system
the unemployment system was set up with
phone operators and a website to handle
like thousands of calls thousands of
input we now have millions of inputs it
is overwhelmed every state unemployment
website office etc I talked to all the
governor's on these conference calls
they're all struggling to deal with a
number of unemployment claims federal
government then just passed a piece of
legislation several weeks ago that had
additional benefits for people which
then required new signups and then it
broke more people to the websites etc we
have hired over 3,000 people to actually
run our unemployment service our website
and to handle the telephones 3,000
people which is just incredible just for
the unemployment line and we've made
great progress there is still for some
people a delay because you do have to
document and certify that the person is
eligible you know it can't be just to
somebody close up and you Bob Duffy
calls and you say okay and you send them
a check
federal law and common sense requires
that you affirm certain information the
good news is even if there's a delay on
the website it doesn't cost you any
money when you get the check the check
is from the date of your eligibility
even though the website can be a pain in
the neck to deal with but I'll ask
Melissa de Rosa who has been overseeing
this if she has an update on the
unemployment site this is actually very
important commissioner Reardon is gonna
do a call later today to brief out on
the latest what we found in the last
several days is that a lot of the people
who are in pending status have not gone
on and certified their unemployment
status which is a separate process from
going through the application so you
file the application you do the phone
call you process through but then you
have to go into the website into your
account and certify that you're
unemployed and that's something you have
to do every week by Saturday so you can
either do it on your website account or
you can call there's two separate
numbers for unemployment insurance it's
eight eight eight five eight one five
eight one two and four pandemic
unemployment insurance it's eight three
three three two four OH three six six
and you have to do that every single
week and certify that you are still
unemployed and eligible to work and then
they process that information so we sent
out 90,000 emails over the weekend to a
batch of people we identified that we're
stuck in that pending status because of
that and as I said Commissioner Reardon
is gonna be doing a more detailed call
this afternoon to continue to get this
information out to the public but that
is the number one thing that I would
recommend to those people who are still
sitting in pending status yes priority
status and just to punctuate one other
thing the governor said about the flu
the one big difference between corona
virus and the flu is that the flu has a
vaccine so for those people who are
still making that comparison I'd like
you to consider that
but you don't know what on the floor
vexing a coronavirus you don't know what
percent is gonna wind up getting it
nobody does and the experts don't know
either well that's not true but yeah
let's say it is true that the
overwhelming number of people who get it
don't die yeah okay yeah that's fine
unless you're the person who dies then
it's not so far
yeah the the nursing homes have seen in
many ways the most intense issue here
and when you think about where this even
started it started in a nursing home in
Washington of Washington the vulnerable
population our senior citizens people
with comorbidities compromised immune
systems and a nursing home is a
aggregation of those people and that's
how it started
and that is where it is most dangerous
in the nursing homes I understand that I
understand the nursing home staff has
been doing doing the people who staff
these nursing homes have been doing a
fantastic job because it really is very
difficult and we had to put some
precautions in place that are just so
harsh I mean we can't have we said no
visitors to a nursing home during this
entire time I mean just think how harsh
that is right but all it takes is one
person to walk into that nursing home
with the virus and then you're off to
the races so we're doing everything we
can the nursing homes are working very
hard we also announced an investigation
with the Attorney General and the
Department of Health to make sure the
nursing homes are doing what they need
to do many of them are privately run but
this state can regulate them they have
to notify families etc so we're doing an
investigation on that but remember the
basic premise of the nursing home the
nursing home can only accept or keep a
patient if if they can provide adequate
care for that patient if they have a
kovat patient or non kovat patient but
they can't provide adequate care for
that person it is their obligation to
transfer the person if they can't find
the place to transfer the person it's
their obligation to call the State
Department of Health and the State
Department of Health will transfer the
person we have facilities for
kovat nursing home residents we have
some facilities that are just Fork Ovid
positive nursing home residents so we
have those facilities available if a
nursing home can't care for a co vyd
resident called the Department of Health
the Department of Health will transfer
the patient period and that
responsibility is on the nursing home
they have to know who they can care for
and who they can't care for if they
can't care for them for any reason my
staff is out sick I don't have the PPE
I can't quarantine I can't isolate for
whatever reason they have an obligation
to call the State Department of Health
and say I have to transfer this person
and we have existing facilities and beds
for them but the nursing home has to
make that determination and if they are
caring for people or they have people
who they're not suited to care for then
they're violating the state policy and
that's part of what this investigation
is going to look at so I've said the
nursing homes before I say it again if
you cannot provide adequate care then
that person has no business being in
your nursing home and we do have
facilities and we do have beds that can
care for nursing home residents and do
it well and do it safely last point I'd
like to make the today we're talking
about what local government officials
have to do what each region has to do to
be ready May 15th is a possible
reopening if you're ready this is how
you're ready learning from the lessons
on the science on the facts but this is
a situation where yes government is
first and foremost in a position where
they have to make decisions and perform
and do it well and competence matters
and professionalism matters and will
hold government officials accountable I
to be held accountable hold government
officials accountable but we also need
local officials we need our hospital
administrators to be a big part of this
and we need every citizen to be part of
this you know who's gonna keep you safe
you are you are not me you are by your
actions you know who's gonna keep your
family safe your family and you are by
being responsible and reasonable in this
situation and then you know how we keep
each other safe by our individual
responsibility and respect by wearing
the masks by maintaining the social
distancing that's how we get through
this everybody has a role to play here
there is no pointing fingers nobody's
been here before it's no one else's job
it's all of us together and that's what
has worked so well so far we just have
to stay at it it's been an honor to be
with you thank you very much
[Music]